---
id: 287a1b2b-f2bf-4a64-a7ff-25cf05824074
blueprint: commentary
title: 'Art. 11 OR'
author: c10c1599-a925-4e29-b45f-a4f9934c1ca7
updated_by: c10c1599-a925-4e29-b45f-a4f9934c1ca7
updated_at: 1663368040
template: commentaries/show
legal_text: adc359d3-11de-49a0-b9f9-b8a2b88de830
---
<h2><strong>I. The Principle: Freedom of&nbsp;Form</strong></h2>
<p><strong>1</strong> In accordance with the general principle of freedom of contract, Art. 11 para. 1 CO establishes the freedom of form as the default rule. Contracts, therefore, only (but still) require a special form if such form is expressly required by (federal) law.<a>[2]</a></p>
<p><strong>2</strong> Formal requirements have multiple purposes.<a>[5]</a></p>
<p><strong>3</strong> If for the validity of a legal act a specific form is required, the parties have to comply with the formal requirement irrespective of whether its purpose (as described above) is otherwise guaranteed in the case at hand. Adherence to the formal requirements is to be assessed and examined separately and independently of the substantive validity of the legal act and its interpretation.<a>[6]</a></p>
<p><strong>4</strong> Statutory formal requirements are to be interpreted narrowly based on the principle of <em>favor negotii</em>.<a>[9]</a></p>
<h2><strong>II. Types of Formal Requirements</strong></h2>
<h3><strong>A. Simple Written Form</strong></h3>
<p><strong>5</strong> Simple written form ("<em>einfache Schriftlichkeit</em>", "<em>forme écrite simple</em>") is the mildest of all formal requirements. It is required that the declarations of intent are made in writing on a physical object of any kind or at least that the declaration is recorded in a way that allows permanent, unchanged reproduction in the form of text.<a>[10]</a></p>
<p><strong>6</strong> Further specific requirements are set out in an exhaustive manner in Art. 12–15 CO.<a>[11]</a> In particular, the contractual document (or object) has to be signed by each party, on whom it imposes obligations (cf. in case of an assignment agreement Art.&nbsp;165&nbsp;CO).</p>
<h3><strong>B. Qualified Written Form</strong></h3>
<p><strong>7 </strong>Qualified written form ("<em>qualifizierte Schriftlichkeit</em>", "<em>forme écrite qualifiée</em>") necessitates to observe additional formal or contextual requirements such as the signature in manuscript of an entire text (e.g. in case of a testament, Art.&nbsp;505 para.&nbsp;1 CC) or the requirement to use specific forms provided by the authorities (e.g. when terminating residential or commercial leases, Art.&nbsp;266l para.&nbsp;2 and Art.&nbsp;269d CO).<a>[12]</a></p>
<h3><strong>C. Public Certification</strong></h3>
<p><strong>8</strong> Public certification or notarisation ("<em>öffentliche Beurkundung</em>", "<em>forme authentique</em>") is the strictest formal requirement. The parties\' agreement (or the legal act) has to be recorded by a person officially entrusted with this task by the state (e.g. a judicial or administrative authority or a notary public) pursuant to the applicable procedures.<a>[13]</a></p>
<p><strong>9</strong> This formal requirement usually applies whenever the legal act is the basis for a (mandatory) entry in public registers (e.g. for real estate transactions) or is particularly sensitive (e.g. for marital agreements or contracts of succession).<a>[14]</a></p>
<p><strong>10</strong> It is not federal but cantonal law that regulates the manner in which public deeds are drawn up in their territory (Art.&nbsp;55 para.&nbsp;1 of the final title of the CC).<a><sup>[17]</sup></a></p>
<h2><strong>III. Extent of Formal Requirements&nbsp;</strong></h2>
<p><strong>11</strong> The extent to which formal requirements apply is governed by federal law.<a>[18]</a></p>
<p><strong>12</strong> Whereas the law in some cases extends the formal requirements to a specific legal act as a whole (e.g. for the sale of immovable property, which is subject to public certification pursuant to Art.&nbsp;216 para.&nbsp;1 CO), formal requirements may also only affect certain parts/clauses typically included in a broader contractual framework (e.g. non-competition clauses within employment contracts, cf.&nbsp;Art.&nbsp;340 para.&nbsp;1 CO<a>[19]</a> or in case of personal suretyships, cf.&nbsp;Art.&nbsp;493 CO).</p>
<p><strong>13</strong> That being said, only the so called <em>objectively</em> or <em>subjectively</em> <em>essential parts</em> of an agreement (<em>essentialia negotii</em>) are subject to formal requirements.<a>[21]</a></p>
<p><strong>14</strong> Formal requirements also apply to amendments of the main contract (cf. Art. 12 CO) and may even extend to ancillary agreements, if such agreements are linked to the main contract.<a>[22]</a></p>
<h2><strong>IV. Legal effects&nbsp;</strong></h2>
<h3><strong>A. In General</strong></h3>
<p><strong>15</strong> Compliance with the formal requirements of simple or qualified written form does not lead to an increased probative value. No conclusions as to the accuracy of the document\'s content or to the authenticity of the signatures can be drawn on the basis of this circumstance alone.<a>[23]</a></p>
<p><strong>16</strong> However, pursuant to Art.&nbsp;9 CC, public deeds constitute full proof of the facts evidenced by them, unless their content is shown to be incorrect.<a>[25]</a></p>
<h3><strong>B. In case of Failure to Comply with Form Requirements</strong></h3>
<p>[26]</a> are considered invalid (Art. 11 para. 2 CO).<a>[27]</a></p>
<p><strong>18</strong> According to the case law of the Federal Supreme Court invalidity means nullity. Such nullity has to be taken into account <em>ex officio </em>and may be invoked at any time (without becoming time-barred) and also by third parties which are not directly involved in the invalid legal relationship.<a>[30]</a></p>
<p><strong>19</strong> If only certain parts of a contract fail to meet formal requirements, partial nullity may be assumed in analogous application of Art.&nbsp;20 para.&nbsp;2 CO (except if the parties would not have entered into the agreement at all without the invalid part).<a>[31]</a></p>
<p><strong>20</strong> If a contract is (irreversibly) invalid due to non-compliance with the formal requirements, no party can request performance or claim compensation (except for special cases such as <em>culpa in contrahendo</em>)<a>[34]</a> However, in some cases the Federal Supreme Court affirms a claim for reliance damages or <em>culpa in contrahendo</em> ("<em>Vertrauenshaftung</em>").</p>
<p><strong>21</strong> However, should both parties have fulfilled their obligations under the contract despite it being invalid (and in full knowledge thereof<a>[37]</a></p>
<p><strong>22</strong> Finally, if a formally invalid legal act meets all the requirements of another type of contract, it may, in some cases,<a>[39]</a></p>
<h2><strong>V. International Private Law</strong></h2>
<p><strong>23</strong> Pursuant to the general rule of Art. 124 PILA,<a>[41]</a></p>